If you're a team manager,
you likely didn't get placed in your position by chance.
Your commitment to develop and grow your own skills
led to your professional competency.
Your commitment to develop and grow the skills of others
led you to be assigned to the role of team manager.
So, one of the most important questions
to ask yourself as you move forward is,
how can I be a better manager for my team?
Here are a few tips to improve your team management skills
in three key areas,
communication, team development, and motivation.
First, here's a tip to improve team communication.
Be generous with how much information
you share with your team.
Share as much information as you can,
whether that's who the end user of the product will be,
what feedback the client gave you,
current challenges the company is facing,
or updates about issues that affect them.
Knowledge is only powerful when it's shared.
Your team will perform at a higher level
if everyone is operating with the same understanding.
Also, facilitating knowledge
or skill sharing between team members can build rapport
and create a more dynamic environment.
Next, let's look at team development.
How do you help your team members develop their skills
and grow as people or professionals?
The biggest tip is to avoid telling your team
all the answers.
Instead, provide the right amount of guidance
to help them find the answers themselves.
One of the best ways to do this
is to ask targeted and open-ended questions to your team,
such as, what do you think?
Or how would you approach this?
Or what steps are involved in this process?
And here's a bonus tip,
stretch your team's skills.
Challenge your team to slowly expand their skills,
try new tasks,
or take on increasing responsibility or autonomy.
Not only will you increase your team's flexibility,
but a little bit of healthy conflict
can lead to growth and higher levels of engagement.
These final two tips
address how to better motivate your team.
The first tip is to recognize and reward team members
for their efforts or good work.
Call out when your team
or individual team members overcome significant challenges,
go above and beyond the call of duty,
or deliver exceptional results.
Also, explore more tangible rewards
to incentivize your team for the long-term.
The second tip is to play to people's strengths.
Get to know the strengths
and interests of your team members
and assign tasks that fit them.
That will help keep your team motivated
and running smoothly.
As you're considering
how to enhance your team management skills,
try asking yourself,
who's a manager that I look up to?
Who are my role models
or favorite leaders from other companies?
You can inspire your own management practices
by looking at what other leaders are doing successfully
and learning from the best.